Add docker compose documentation (#1804)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/docker/docker-compose-settings.adoc

:description: Running Docker Using Docker Compose

> [[docker-compose-neo4j-configuration]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[docker-compose-neo4j-standalone]
```

> = Docker Compose configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Deploy a Neo4j standalone server using Docker Compose
```

> It is possible to create a docker compose configuration that will start a Neo4j instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy a Neo4j standalone server using Docker Compose.
```

> In addition to storing the container configuration, docker compose can simplify the usage of secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to storing the container configuration, Docker Compose can simplify the usage of secrets.
```

> [[docker-image]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[docker-compose-basic-authentication]]
```

> == Using a docker compose configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deploy a Neo4j server with basic authentication
```

> In order to create a docker compose configuration file, create a file named `docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start, verify that you have installed Docker Compose.
For more information, see the https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Install Docker Compose official documentation].

//. Create a configuration file, `neo4j.conf` make it readable and writable for the user (eg., `chmod 640 neo4j.conf`).
. Prepare your _docker-compose.yml_ file using the following example.
For more information, see the https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#service-configuration-reference[Docker Compose official Service configuration reference].
+
.Example of a _docker-compose.yml_ file
====
```

> .Create a neo4j container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> .docker-compose.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+,+macros"]
----
services:
  neo4j:
    image: neo4j:{neo4j-version-exact}
    ports:
      - "7474:7474"
      - "7687:7687"
    restart: always

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
====
```

> .Execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy your Neo4j server by running `docker-compose up` from your project folder.
+
```

[source,shell,subs="attributes+,+macros"]
----
docker-compose up -d #<1>
----

> <1> The `-d` flag will start the container in detached mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `-d` flag starts the container in detached mode.
```

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Similarly, you can mount volumes and configure environment variables.

> .Mount logs, config and plugins to the equivalent container mount points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Mount logs, config, and plugins to the equivalent container mount points.
+
```

> .Mount logs, config and plugins to the equivalent container mount points

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be done before running `docker-compose up`?

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+,+macros"]
----
services:
  neo4j:
    image: neo4j:{neo4j-version-exact}
    volumes:
        - /$HOME/neo4j/logs:/logs # <1>
        - /$HOME/neo4j/config:/config
        - /$HOME/neo4j/plugins:/plugins
    environment:
        - NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/your_password # <2>
    ports:
      - "7474:7474"
      - "7687:7687"
    restart: always
----

> <1> Mounting the neo4j logs directory to a host local directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Mounting the _neo4j/logs_ directory to a host local directory.
```

> <2> Setting the neo4j username and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Setting the `neo4j` username and password.
```

====

[[docker-secrets]]
== Using Docker secrets

It is advisable to not store sensitive information in the `docker-compose.yml` file, such as the database username and password like in the above example.

> You can instead store your secrets in files and use them in your `docker-compose.yml` file without exposing their values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instead store your credentials in files and use them in your _docker-compose.yml_ file without exposing their values.
```

> .Create a ne4j container with the username and password defined as a secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a file, for example, _neo4j_auth.txt_, containing the username and password for the Neo4j server to be used as a Docker secret.
+
```

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> .neo4j_auth.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,text,subs="attributes"]
----
neo4j:your_password
----

> .docker-compose.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Prepare your _docker-compose.yml_ file using the following example.
+
.Example of a _docker-compose.yml_ file
====
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+,+macros"]
----
services:
  neo4j:
    image: neo4j:{neo4j-version-exact}
    volumes:
        - /$HOME/neo4j/logs:/logs
        - /$HOME/neo4j/config:/config
        - /$HOME/neo4j/plugin:/plugins
    environment:
        - NEO4J_AUTH_FILE=/run/secrets/neo4j_auth_file # <1>
    ports:
      - "7474:7474"
      - "7687:7687"
    restart: always
    secrets:
      - neo4j_auth_file #<4>
secrets:
  neo4j_auth_file: # <2>
    file: ./neo4j_auth.txt # <3>
----

> <1> Defining the file where the value for the `NEO4J_AUTH` environment variable can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The file where the value for the `NEO4J_AUTH` environment variable can be found.
```

> <2> Defining the secret named `neo4j_auth_file`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the secret, for example `neo4j_auth_file`.
```

> <3> Pointing to the `neo4j_auth.txt` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Path to the _neo4j_auth.txt_ file.
```

> <4> Using the secret in the `neo4j` service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The name of the secret in the `neo4j` service.
```

====

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy your Neo4j server by running `docker-compose up` from your project folder.
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+,+macros"]
----
docker-compose up -d
----
```

[NOTE]
====

> You can define any neo4j variable as a secret in the same way, by simply using the same variable name with the `_FILE` suffix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define any Neo4j variable as a secret in the same way by simply using the same variable name with the `_FILE` suffix.
```

====

> [WARNING]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WARNING]

```

====

> The secret value will override the equivalent environment variable if they are both defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret value overrides the equivalent environment variable if they are both defined.
```

> So for example if we had also defined an environment variable `NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/your_other_password` in the `environment` section of the `neo4j` service, the value of `NEO4J_AUTH_FILE` would be the one used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, for example, if you also define an environment variable `NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/your_other_password` in the `environment` section of the `neo4j` service, the value of `NEO4J_AUTH_FILE` will be the one used.
```
